in this lesson we're going to talk about
the functionality of conditional access
mfa and sso
i already mentioned the term conditional
access and this sso capability
i previously drew the idea that we have
our azure ad tenant for our organization
and we had the idea that there are
accounts either created in the cloud or
they were synchronized from on-premises
and i talked about the idea that well
with azure id and centralizing that
identity it also gives us a single point
to not only secure the identity
but specify controls around well what is
required to be able to use all the
applications that trust my azure id
instance
so we have this idea
of this nice protective conditional
access
and this is through the creation of
policies
and what these policies do is basically
i set conditions
that need to be met
based on the criteria
of the specification of the particular
policy
so i could target a particular remember
i've got all these different
applications
trusting
my azure ad tenant for its
authentication and authorization
so i could target all cloud applications
a particular cloud application i could
target hey this group of users from this
location if they're on this type of
device if there's a certain risk so i
have all these different
things that i can match and filter on
for if this policy applies and then i
have the conditions that they need to
meet that condition could be focused
around maybe the device
they're using
is it known and healthy to the azure id
did they perform multi-factor
authentication which we'll get to
and maybe things like what is their risk
there's all these different elements
so if we go and actually look at a
conditional access policy this will all
get much clearer
so this is part of azure ad so i go to
my azure ad tenant
i'm going to go down to my security
and then under security i can see my
conditional access so if i go to
conditional access
here i have a whole list of policies
that i've already created now notice
there is the idea of things like named
locations so i can create actual
locations based on sets of public-facing
ip addresses
or even things like
countries and even gps coordinates so if
i look at named locations for a second
hey i could create a country's location
and i could determine that by ip address
or by gps coordinates if it's a mobile
device or i can just specify a list of
ip ranges
i can create pdf documents which could
be terms of use that can be shown and
presented that they have to accept
before they could access a certain
application
but ultimately we create a policy and if
i just say create a new policy
you give it a name
and then you target
hey i want to target maybe
all users
maybe select users
maybe it's certain roles within my azure
id and i can exclude certain people
i can target particular applications so
once again we could target all cloud
applications we could exclude them i can
also apply it to certain types of
actions
if i say select apps well then we see
all the different applications that have
been added to my azure ad tenant so this
could be third-party applications it
could be ones i've written there were
certain built-in ones
just about azure itself for example
azure linux vm signing windows sign-in
azure batch azure management either
portal itself
so i can target a particular application
i might see things like office 365
exchange online
then i specify well when does this apply
so i could say well if the user's risk
this is using identity protection a p2
feature hey if i'm detecting the user's
risk is
high medium
the individual signing attempt i'm
detecting something risky about this
particular
interaction
i could target hey what platform are you
running on
i could target particular locations i
could target particular client
applications
and i could even pick particular device
states
so if all these different things and i
can even filter devices that i can
control when does this policy apply and
then if it applies
or i could either block access
or more likely i'll grant it
and i can say yeah but i want you to
perform for example multi-factor
authentication
or maybe it's marked as compliant by
something like intune
maybe it has to be joined and registered
to my azure id and my ad environment
maybe it has to be an approved
application i want them to change their
password i have to accept a certain
terms of use that i have created
and i can also say well out of all those
controls
do they require to meet all of them
or just one of them
for example i might have controls that
say hey either you have to use
multi-factor authentication or the
device has to be marked as compliant i
just want to do something to make sure
hey
that device is healthy
so conditional access is all about when
i'm trying to be authorized to use a
certain cloud application it will go
through conditional access work out
which policies apply and i have to meet
those conditions
so one of those was mfa multi-factor
authentication
now mfa is all about the idea of strong
authentication we said the password
is not saying we like on its own so mfa
is based around the idea that we said
there were different ways we can prove
who we are
remember there was something
we know
i.e
a password
or maybe something like a pin
or a gesture
maybe it's something
we are
we talked about remember biometric
or it could be something
we have
and that's where we talked about the
idea it could be some kind of hardware
token
it could be my phone running
a certain authenticator application it
could even be my pc my pc has that tpm
in it i can use things like hello for
business
so the point of multi-factor
authentication is i want
two
or more of these i don't want just one
i want a strong authentication
and you can combine these with the idea
of hey maybe i have the authenticator
app running on my phone
well then that's something i have i have
the phone with the app on it and to get
to the app i probably have to unlock the
phone so it's maybe saying i am i use a
biometric to unlock my phone or
something i know i have a pin to unlock
my phone
if it's hello for business and it's the
tpm so it's saying i have that
particular machine and i have to unlock
the machine i type a pin or again maybe
it's some kind of biometric a
fingerprint or that 3d facial scan
so mfa is about strong authentication by
having two or more of those particular
things
and i typically want to drive that from
conditional access we don't like just
turning mfa on and making users do it on
every single authentication they'll get
muscle memory and just always accept it
always do it
we want to instead target it that hey
i'm accessing a sensitive application or
even maybe sensitive data within an
application i'm detecting some
heightened risk at that point it's
something maybe a little bit out of the
ordinary we want the user to be shaken i
said oh i'm being prompted for ffa hmm
they're going to focus on that because
it's not something they're doing every
hour
and then if they do get prompted they're
really going to think about well did i
do something or is something bad
happening somewhere that's making that
happen
so mfa
is a licensable feature
with azure ad premium
p1 and above
now that lets me use all the different
forms of mfa so the preferred one is
kind of the authenticator application
there's a number of other benefits it
acts as a broker for tokens and that's
actually notified there's different
forms i can use that but i can also do
things like well an sms message i can
get a call
there's other hardware tokens i can use
there are different things i can
leverage
also if i'm just a global admin on an
azure id tenant i can do those things
if i turn on there's just a
standard there's a security default so
if i turn on security defaults
on my tenant
i am not using
p1 or p2 enhanced licenses
then all users get mfa
i don't have any control i'm not using
conditional access it's what
azure considers a heightened type of
interaction and it's using the
authenticator app that's my only choice
so if i'm doing the security defaults
which is that free option
i can do mfa for my users but it's only
the authenticator app
or
i can use azure ad premium p1p2 and they
come as part of other licenses as well i
get the full conditional access driven
mfa
office 365 also offers some mfa
capabilities focused around
office 365 applications
now i also mentioned before the idea of
the user
hey i don't want them constantly getting
prompted
for every athlete access
ideally what happens is at the start of
the day
they're on their kind of machine
and they perform some authentication
using their identity
at that point on if they then go and
access
other applications
i don't want them to get prompted again
so what's happening behind the scenes is
we're getting this
single sign-on experience
also seamless sign-on it depends on the
exact workings of what's happening
but the experience for the end user is
yes i authenticate once so kind of at
the start of the day i authenticate to
azure id i get some tokens back of
different types
and then through those when i access
other applications that trust the same
azure ad tenant i don't get prompted
again it's going to give me that single
sign-on experience which is great for
the user now every time i access an
application
that's a different authorization which
means it goes through conditional access
so if i authenticated
and then i try and access an application
that the conditional access says well
this is a a heightened security
application or heightened data
i actually need you to now do a strong
authentication it would prompt me for
that mfa so it can still add on if i did
the basic
authentication initially and now the
conditions are different maybe the
condition is hey no you can't access
because you have to be from a hybrid
joint device so you have to be in a
certain location
those still apply but single sign-on
it's all about the idea that hey i've
authenticated
i don't want to then get prompted to
authenticate on every app it's just
going to seamlessly
get me connected through